All right, in step six,
modify the Spring Boot app,
the REST Repository needs a new method.
So currently the Spring Boot app returns the products
regardless of category.
We need to modify this to only return products
for a given category id
Spring Data REST and Spring Data JPA supports query methods.
So behind the scenes Spring will construct a query
based on method naming conventions.
Ooh, magic, magic.
So methods starting with findBy, readBy, queryBy, and so on,
those are called query methods.
In this example here, in my repository
I'm going to add this new method, findByCategoryId.
So since this method starts with findBy,
it's known as a query method
and so Spring will do some special processing
on this given method.
All right, so let's kind of break this down a bit.
So here's our query method, so findBy.
It says, hey that's a query method
and then we have by CategoryId.
So it's going to match by CategoryId
and then we pass in this RequestParam("id").
So we tell it hey, use this parameter value to match all.
So behind the scenes Spring will actually
look at that method name.
It'll parse that method name
and Spring will execute a query similar to this.
So it'll say SELECT * from product,
because we have this product repository,
where category_id equals whatever values being passed in.
So again this is magic here.
Spring is actually creating and executing a query
based on your method name.
Ah, scary, fun, exciting, magic.
All right, so a bit more on these query methods.
So you can actually provide your own custom query
using the @Query annotation,
because you say, hey you know what,
I don't like the magic of the method name,
or I have a very complex, advance query for my business
that I can't write it out as a given method.
Don't worry, you can use @Query
and you can give your own query for that.
The query methods also have support for conditionals
like and, or, like, sort, and so on.
For details on this topic
you can see the Query Methods section
in the Spring Data Reference Manual
and here's the link here on the slide.
You can go to this link.
It'll redirect you to the official documentation
and you can read all the details on this given topic.
All right now a bit more on this method
as far as some other items that I didn't discuss yet,
Page and Pageable.
So these items provide support for pagination.
So in this given method definition here,
note here on the left hand side, it has Page<Product>.
So Page is a sublist of a list of object.
So think your have 1,000 object out there.
Then you only want the first 10 or first 20.
That's a Page, so it's a list.
It's just a small list.
This Page has information such as total elements,
total pages, current position, and so on
and then also we have this Pageable.
So Pageable represents pagination information.
So it has information such as which page number to go to,
the page size, the previous reference,
the next reference, and so on
and these objects are created automatically for you,
behind the scenes, by the Spring framework.
All right, so now that we have a method defined,
Spring Data REST will automatically expose
REST endpoints for the query methods.
So any query method that you have
that starts with findBy, readBy, queryBy,
then they'll be available under your /search/
whatever the query method name is.
So in our example, our findByCategoryId
then this will be under
localhost:8080/api/products/search/findByCategoryId.
So it matches on the actual method name
and now with this new item here that we have
the question is well, how do we pass data
to this given REST API?
Well we simply use the ?id= and then we plug in the value.
So that's the id of one.
So that's the CategoryId of one, or two, or three, or four.
So that's how you pass the given data
to this given Spring Data REST API.
All right, so in our final step here,
step seven, almost done.
When need to update the Angular Service
to call the new URL on our Spring Boot application.
So here's our ProductService.TS.
We have our base url, we have this method getProductList.
We're going to add this new parameter here
theCategoryId, that's a number,
and then we simply set up the reference here.
So baseUrl/search/findByCategoryId
and then we simply associate or append the CategoryId
that was passed into this given method.
So it'll give us Id of one, two, three, or four
based on the parameter that we passed
to this given Angular method in our ProductService.
All righty, so just a recap on our development process.
We have seven steps for setting up this functionality.
In the next set of videos
we'll actually move into our Id E
and we'll start writing the code.
So I'll see you in the next video.